Add Log analytics to doc website repo (#1977)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/log-analytics.md

---
layout: default
title: Log analytics
nav_order: 12
---

> # Introduction

Reviewer: suggestion for title. . .  "Introduction to log analytics"

> Data Prepper is an extendable, configurable, and scalable solution for log ingestion into OpenSearch and Amazon OpenSearch Service. Data Prepper supports receiving logs from [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io/) through the [HTTP Source](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/http-source/README.md) and processing those logs with a [Grok Processor](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/grok-processor/README.md) before ingesting them into OpenSearch through the [OpenSearch sink](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/README.md).

Reviewer 2: @carolxob , Just to give you more context for the restructure (#1542), some of these links should in the future be changed to the reference pages that will be created as part of #1542.

So for example,

`[HTTP Source](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/http-source/README.md)` - This would be a link to the new HTTP Source page which is part of the Data Prepper reference.

This should not hold this PR up, but I hope it gives you additional context!

Here are all of the components for log analytics with FluentBit, Data Prepper, and OpenSearch:

![Log analytics component]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/log-analytics/log-analytics-components.png)

> In the application environment, run FluentBit. FluentBit can be containerized through Kubernetes, Docker, or Amazon ECS. You can also run FluentBit as an agent on EC2. Configure the [FluentBit http output plugin](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/http) to export log data to Data Prepper. Then, deploy Data Prepper as an intermediate component and configure it to send the enriched log data to your OpenSearch cluster. From there, use OpenSearch Dashboards to perform more intensive visualization and analysis. 

Reviewer 3: Does it run as an agent specifically on EC2 or can it be run as an agent on any VM?

Author: That's a good question. @dlvenable do you have any input?

Author: Can be run on an agent with any VM.

# Log analytics pipeline 

Log analytic pipelines in Data Prepper are extremely customizable. See the simple pipeline below. 

![Log analytics component]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/log-analytics/log-ingestion-fluent-bit-data-prepper.png)

# HTTP source

> The [HTTP Source](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/http-source/README.md) accepts log data from FluentBit. This source accepts log data in a JSON array format and supports industry-standard encryption in the form of TLS/HTTPS and HTTP basic authentication.

Reviewer 4: "The [HTTP source plugin]..."?

# Processor

> Data Prepper 1.2 release and above comes with a [Grok Processor](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/grok-processor/README.md). The Grok Processor is an invaluable tool to structure and extract important fields from your logs that makes them more queryable.

Reviewer 3: The last sentence:
```
The Grok Processor is an invaluable tool to structure and extract important fields from your logs that makes them more queryable.
```

Might read better:
```
The Grok Processor is an invaluable tool used to structure and extract important fields from your logs that makes them more queryable.
```

Reviewer 3: Or maybe "...invaluable tool for structuring and extracting important fields..."

> Data Prepper 1.2 and above comes with a [Grok Processor](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/grok-processor/README.md). The Grok Processor is an invaluable tool for structuring and extracting important fields from your logs, making them more queryable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Data Prepper 1.2 and above come with a [Grok Processor](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/grok-processor/README.md). The Grok Processor is an invaluable tool for structuring and extracting important fields from your logs, making them more queryable.
```

The Grok Processor comes with a wide variety of [default patterns](https://github.com/thekrakken/java-grok/blob/master/src/main/resources/patterns/patterns) that match against common log formats like apcahe logs or syslogs, but can easily accept any custom patterns that cater to your specific log format.

There are a lot of complex Grok features that will not be discussed here, so please read the documentation if you are interested.

# OpenSearch sink

> There is a generic sink that writes the data to OpenSearch as the destination. The [OpenSearch sink](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/README.md) has configuration options related to an OpenSearch cluster like endpoint, SSL/Username, index name, index template, index state management, etc.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what `SSL/Username` is - should that be two separate things or is it just a data prepper concept that makes sense to people that would read it?

# Pipeline configuration

> 

Reviewer 4: @carolxob This still needs to be addressed. Just a simple sentence that says something like "The following sections..." is fine.

> ## Example pipeline.yaml with SSL and basic authentication enabled

Reviewer 4: Can we add the noun after pipeline.yaml?

> Example `pipeline.yaml` with SSL and basic authentication enabled for the `http-source`:

Reviewer 4: Can we add the noun after `pipeline.yaml`?

      ssl_certificate_file: "/full/path/to/certfile.crt"
      ssl_key_file: "/full/path/to/keyfile.key"
      authentication:
        http_basic:
          username: "myuser"
          password: "mys3cret"
  processor:
    - grok:
        match:
          # This will match logs with a "log" key against the COMMONAPACHELOG pattern (ex: { "log": "actual apache log..." } )
          # You should change this to match what your logs look like. See the grok documenation to get started.
          log: [ "%{COMMONAPACHELOG}" ]
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
        # Change to your credentials
        username: "admin"
        password: "admin"
        # Add a certificate file if you are accessing an OpenSearch cluster with a self-signed certificate  
        #cert: /path/to/cert
        # If you are connecting to an Amazon OpenSearch Service domain without
        # Fine-Grained Access Control, enable these settings. Comment out the
        # username and password above.
        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
        # Since we are grok matching for apache logs, it makes sense to send them to an OpenSearch index named apache_logs.

>         # You should change this to correspond with how your OpenSearch indices are set up.

Reviewer 3: Not super important since this is just a comment, but unless we're referring to a hardcoded property (like the `indices` API endpoint), we write the plural as "indexes." Clear as mud right?

        index: apache_logs
```

This pipeline configuration is an example of Apache log ingestion. Don't forget that you can easily configure the Grok processor for your own custom logs. You will need to modify the configuration above for your OpenSearch cluster.

The main changes you need to make are:

* `hosts` - Set to your hosts
* `index` - Change this to the OpenSearch index you want to send logs to
* `username`- Provide the OpenSearch username
* `password` - Provide your OpenSearch password
* `aws_sigv4` - If you use Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this to true. It will sign requests with the default AWS credentials provider.

> * `aws_region` - If you use Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to your region.

Reviewer 3: Maybe clarify this:

```
[...] set this value to the region hosting your domain.
```

Or something like that. I'm not sure if "domain" is necessarily the right word, but it's important to clarify that the region someone lives in or access AWS console from may not be the same region where the cluster lives.

> * `aws_region` - If you use Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to the AWS Region in which your cluster is hosted.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `aws_region` – If you use Amazon OpenSearch Service with AWS signing, set this value to the AWS Region in which your cluster is hosted.
```

## FluentBit

> You will have to run FluentBit in your service environment. You can find the installation guide of FluentBit [here](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/installation/getting-started-with-fluent-bit). Ensure that you can configure the [FluentBit http output plugin](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/http) to your Data Prepper Http Source. Below is an example `fluent-bit.conf` that tails a log file named `test.log` and forwards it to a locally running Data Prepper's http source, which runs by default on port 2021. 

Reviewer 3: HTTP should be capitalized

> You will have to run FluentBit in your service environment. You can find the installation guide of FluentBit [here](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/installation/getting-started-with-fluent-bit). Ensure that you can configure the [FluentBit http output plugin](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/http) to your Data Prepper Http Source. Below is an example `fluent-bit.conf` that tails a log file named `test.log` and forwards it to a locally running Data Prepper's http source, which runs by default on port 2021. 

Reviewer 4: Do not use _here_ or _click here_ for link text because it creates accessibility problems. In most cases, a formal cross-reference (the title of the page you're linking to) is the preferred style because it provides context and helps readers understand where they're going when they choose the link.

Is "configure...to" the right wording, or would "configure...for" or another preposition be better? Can we add the noun after `fluent-bit.conf`? Is "tails" the right verb, or can we use something a bit clearer?

> Note that you should adjust the file `path`, output `Host` and `Port` according to how and where you have FluentBit and Data Prepper running.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note that you should adjust the file `path`, output `Host`, and `Port` according to how and where you have Fluent Bit and Data Prepper running.
```

> ### Example fluent-bit.conf without SSL and basic authentication enabled

Reviewer 4: Can we add the noun after fluent-bit.conf?

> Example `fluent-bit.conf` without SSL and Basic Authentication enabled on the http source:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` without SSL and basic authentication enabled on the HTTP source:
```

Reviewer 4: Can we add the noun after `fluent-bit.conf`?

> The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` without SSL and basic authentication enabled on the HTTP source:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` file without SSL and basic authentication enabled on the HTTP source:
```

```
[INPUT]
  name                  tail
  refresh_interval      5
  path                  test.log
  read_from_head        true

[OUTPUT]
  Name http
  Match *
  Host localhost
  Port 2021
  URI /log/ingest
  Format json
```

> If your http source has SSL and basic authentication enabled, you will need to add the details of `http_User`, `http_Passwd`, `tls.crt_file`, and `tls.key_file` to the `fluent-bit.conf` as shown below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If your HTTP source has SSL and basic authentication enabled, you will need to add the details of `http_User`, `http_Passwd`, `tls.crt_file`, and `tls.key_file` to the `fluent-bit.conf`, as shown in the following example.
```

Reviewer 4: Can we add the noun after `fluent-bit.conf`?

> ### Example fluent-bit.conf with SSL and basic authentication enabled

Reviewer 4: Can we add the noun after fluent-bit.conf?

> Example `fluent-bit.conf` with SSL and basic authentication enabled on the http source:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` with SSL and basic authentication enabled on the HTTP source:
```

Reviewer 4: Can we add the noun after `fluent-bit.conf`?

> The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` with SSL and basic authentication enabled on the HTTP source:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` file with SSL and basic authentication enabled on the HTTP source:
```

```
[INPUT]
  name                  tail
  refresh_interval      5
  path                  test.log
  read_from_head        true

[OUTPUT]
  Name http
  Match *
  Host localhost
  http_User myuser
  http_Passwd mys3cret
  tls On
  tls.crt_file /full/path/to/certfile.crt
  tls.key_file /full/path/to/keyfile.key
  Port 2021
  URI /log/ingest
  Format json
```

> # Next Steps

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Next steps
```

> Follow the [Log ingestion demo guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/examples/log-ingestion/README.md) to go through a specific example of Apache log ingestion from `FluentBit -> Data Prepper -> OpenSearch` running through Docker.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the [Data Prepper Log Ingestion Demo Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/examples/log-ingestion/README.md) for a specific example of Apache log ingestion from `FluentBit -> Data Prepper -> OpenSearch` running through Docker.
```

> In the future, Data Prepper will contain additional sources and processors which will make more complex log analytic pipelines available. Check out our [Roadmap](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/projects/1) to see what is coming.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the future, Data Prepper will offer additional sources and processors that will make more complex log analytics pipelines available. Check out the [Data Prepper Project Roadmap](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/projects/1) to see what is coming.  
```

> If there is a specifc source, processor, or sink that you would like to include in your log analytic workflow, and it is not currently on the Roadmap, please bring it to our attention by making a Github issue. Additionally, if you are interested in contributing, see our [Contribuing guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md) as well as our [Developer guide](developer_guide.md) and [Plugin development guide](plugin_development.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If there is a specific source, processor, or sink that you would like to include in your log analytic workflow and is not currently on the roadmap, please bring it to our attention by creating a GitHub issue. Additionally, if you are interested in contributing to Data Prepper, see our [Contribuing Guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md) as well as our [Developer guide](developer_guide.md) and [Plugin development guide](plugin_development.md).
```

Reviewer 4: Please correct the last two links and ensure they reflect the capitalization of the title of the destination.

Author: Added these changes manually.

> If there is a specific source, processor, or sink that you would like to include in your log analytic workflow, and is not currently on the roadmap, please bring it to our attention by creating a Github issue. Additionally, if you are interested in contributing to Data Prepper, see our [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) as well as our [Developer guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/developer_guide.md) and [Plugin development guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/plugin_development.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If there is a specific source, processor, or sink that you would like to include in your log analytics workflow and is not currently on the roadmap, please bring it to our attention by creating a GitHub issue. Additionally, if you are interested in contributing to Data Prepper, see our [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) as well as our [developer guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/developer_guide.md) and [plugin development guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/plugin_development.md).
```

        #aws_sigv4: true
        #aws_region: us-east-1
        # Since we are grok matching for apache logs, it makes sense to send them to an OpenSearch index named apache_logs.

>         # You should change this to correspond with how your OpenSearch indixes are set up.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        # You should change this to correspond with how your OpenSearch indexes are set up.
```
